>> Brian Holt: Before we get
to requesting against the API,
I wanna show you how to do with
something that's called a custom hook.
So right now we've just been using
useState all over the place, but
if you notice HTML for animal, or
this one here right animal and breed.
These are almost the same thing,
right, to the point that like,
it'd be nice if we could have
some sort of like reusable bit.
That would do like a drop-down for us, and
we didn't have to do all this song and
circumstance.
And we could maintain them together,
so let's actually go do that.
So make a new file here,
and call it useDropdown.js.
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
here you wanna import React from 'react'.
>> Brian Holt: And
we're also gonna use useState.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, and
then I'm gonna say const useDropdown,
this is gonna be our hook
that we're gonna create.
And it's gonna take in a label,
some sort of default state,
and some sort of a list of
options to put in there.
>> Brian Holt: Then down at the bottom
we're going to export default useDropdown.
So we're gonna say const state,
useState, so
we're gonna make this
like a generic dropdown.
>> Brian Holt: So not useState but
setState
>> Brian Holt: Equals useState, and
the default state of this is going to be
whatever they pass in, so default state.
>> Brian Holt: We're gonna get some
sort of ID, so you just need it to be
something unique, because we have
to give things keys and such.
So I'm gonna use template strings,
so I'm gonna use backticks,
backticks are the ones next
to 1 on your keyboard.
Then we'll say use-drop
down-$ curly braces and
then JavaScript expressions
can go in here.
So, I'm gonna say, label.replace, so
take any spaces out of the string and
also make it lowercase.
>> Brian Holt: So like if label here
was something like Best Dogs Ever or
something like that, right?
What this would do is it would make this
>> Brian Holt: Look like that,
right, that's what this
would output there, right?
Doesn't matter that it's readable,
it just matters that it's unique.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, and then the
component that we're gonna make is called
a Dropdown, so
const Dropdown equals an arrow function.
And we're just gonna use that
implicit return again with
the parentheses,
equals label htmlFor equals the ID.
>> Brian Holt: And then here, this is
gonna have an ID, we need to put a label
inside of that label which is
coming in here from the parameters.
And then we're gonna put
a select inside of that.
>> Brian Holt: And we have to give that
select an ID as well, so id= [id],
value = state which we created up here,
so state.
>> Brian Holt: OnChange,
we're going to call e and
we're gonna say to setState
to be e.target.value.
And then the same thing for blur, onBlur.
>> Brian Holt: And then we have to
give it that disabled thing as well,
disabled equals options.length triple = 0.
Here we're gonna give it an option of all,
which is gonna have no value, right?
Which means it's going to have
nothing selective when it's on all.
And then here we're gonna say options.map
and do the same thing with map.
So this is gonna be some item in the array
of some option, we'll stick with item.
Use our implicit return
with parentheses and
say option key=[item], value=[item],
and then item right there as well.
>> Brian Holt: Get my parentheses
all matched up, here we go.
>> Brian Holt: So now we have this
generic drop down component, right?
That's gonna take in a label,
some default state options and
make a dropdown component.
So now what we're going to
return down here at the bottom,
is we're gonna return the state,
the Dropdown.
And then we're also gonna return
this setState function as well.
>> Brian Holt: Like that, and now we
can use this just like we used a hook,
because this is gonna give us the state.
The Dropdown's gonna handle all of the
setting and unsetting of the state, right?
And then just in case as well for later,
we're gonna return this setState function.
So that we can programmatically update it,
in addition to using the Dropdown.
So I understand this is a little abstract,
we've taken the animal Dropdown and
the breed Dropdown.
And then we've just formed it into
this kind of generic Dropdown hook.
>> Brian Holt: Good so far?
All right, so let's go ahead and
go back to the search params.
>> Brian Holt: And what we're gonna do,
instead of doing animal and setAnimal,
what we're gonna do is
we're gonna say const.
>> Brian Holt: First thing is
you have to import up top,
so Import useDropown from ./useDropdown.
We still need breeds so
we'll keep track of that,
but now what we're gonna do is we're gonna
say const [animal, animalDropdown].
And we'll actually just
leave it at that for now,
= useDropDown, and
we'll give it Animals the label.
>> Brian Holt: We'll give it
dog as the default state,
and we'll give it Animals as
a list of options to choose from.
Then for breeds we're gonna say const,
>> Brian Holt: Breed,
BreedDropdown and
we'll leave it at that for
now equals useDropdown with "Breed"
empty string as a default state, right?
And breeds which again we'll handle this
from the API here is just a second later.
So now I have this animal Dropdown and
this breed drop down, so
rather than having all of this
label stuff here for that.
I'm gonna delete Animal and
I'm gonna delete Breed.
>> Brian Holt: So now I just have
the location one, which is different,
we don't wanna make
that generic right now.
But what's cool is I just have
an AnimalDropdown and a BreedDropdown.
>> Brian Holt: And
that's pretty cool in my opinion,
we've kinda taken out this logic, we
extracted it out to this useDropdown hook.
And now we just get these
little AnimalDropdown,
BreedDropddown, self contained dropdowns.
So if I save this and
I go back over to my code this all
works exactly the same way now.
But it's using this kind of shared
generic class, or hook, as it were.
>> Brian Holt: And what's great about
this is now I can write all sorts of unit
tests,and I can use this
all over the place.
And I can kinda guarantee to my future
self that this is a really good piece of
code that I can reuse over and
over and over again.
>> Brian Holt: Now we have a bunch
of errors around unused variables,
we will fix this momentarily, but
you should expect to see that right now.